# ASA-DH-2016
DH panels at 2016 ASA conference in Denver, CO

Saturday, November 19, 2016
<h3>Digital Intimacies</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 8:00 to 9:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Constructed session</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127859&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Nassim</i> <i>Winnie</i> <i>Balestrini</i>, University of Graz (Austria)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136344&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>I’m Gay: Collective Reiteration and the Performative Queer Liberal Subject</strong> - <i>Jody</i> <i>Ahlm</i>, University of Illinois, Chicago (IL)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136138&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Imagined Commenting: The Construction of Black Queer Community within YouTube Counterpublics</strong> - <i>Faithe</i> <i>Day</i>, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (MI)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132107&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Home Readings: Transnationally-American Narratives of Syrian Refugees</strong> - <i>Hazel</i> <i>Gedikli</i>, University of Massachusetts, Amherst (MA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1135956&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Games Families Play: Computer-Mediated Board Games in the Neoliberal Home</strong> - <i>Reem</i> <i>Hilu</i>, Northwestern University (IL)</p></li></ul>
<h3>Contested Visions of Home: Asian/American Diasporic Subjectivities in the Media</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 8:00 to 9:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall G</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Asian/American subjectivities are deeply shaped by the concept of home.  For some, home is a place of stability and safety.  Yet for diasporic subjects whose identities are marked by movement and displacement, home can be rife with contestation and disruption.  Asian/American understandings of home cannot be delinked from systemic racism, gender oppression, and modern colonialism.  Moreover, the troubled relationships that Asian/Americans have had to citizenship can make it difficult to speak up, voice their struggles, or navigate the violence and upheaval that have defined their experiences of home.<br />
 <br />
In this panel, we examine the creation of home through an interdisciplinary exploration of media representations, looking at the way Asian/American visions of home are created and overturned within film, radio, journalism, and digital media.  Through interrogating these representations of Asian/American bodies, voices, and experiences, we seek to answer the questions such as, what does home mean for Asian/Americans when the home may be the site of violence?  How do different forms of media provide access to Asian/American expressions of home, and how are opportunities for resistance both revealed and obscured through these stories?  As Asians cross geographies, notions of how they belong in a given moment are deeply shaped by violence and sociopolitical instabilities.  Violence takes on many faces: domestic violence, human trafficking, exclusionary policies, and histories of military engagement.  Within the stories of Asian/Americans in the diaspora, we seek to unravel the various contested meanings of home that prevail in spite of this violence, and in doing so, have come to define Asian/American politics, social dynamics, and history.<br />
 <br />Annie Fukushima will open our panel with an exploration of the violence against Asian migrants who have been trafficked into domestic servitude, asking how the concept of debt can help us to better understand their struggles.  Through an analysis of legal court records and media circulations, she posits a form of unsettled witnessing as key to understanding the way that these populations are rewriting their understanding of home.  Terry Park then explores the figure of Walt Kowalski in Clint Eastwood’s film Gran Torino (2009), asking how his history as a Korean War veteran impacts the relationship he builds with his Hmong American neighbors.  The way that Kowalski polices the borders of his white picket-fenced home can be read in conjunction with Trans-Pacific circulation of Korean War and Cold War security practices that shape our definition of “home” and “not home,” ultimately revealing what it would take to transform those boundaries.  Finally, Lori Lopez will present her research on the way that Hmong American women are using audio media in new ways that can begin to counter their long histories of displacement and disruption.  She argues that Hmong American women are using these different media platforms to broadcast their collective voices and facilitate conversations by using their own cultural heritage as a strength, and in doing so, can create a diasporic space of belonging.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7991226&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Patty</i> <i>Ahn</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1135220&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Questioning Home & Obligation: Witnessing the Trafficking of Asian Diasporas into Domestic Servitude</strong> - <i>Annie</i> <i>Isabel</i> <i>Fukushima</i>, University of Utah (UT)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1135221&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Go Ahead, Get Off My Lawn: The Korean War, The Gift of Freedom, and Guarding the Home/front in Clint Eastwood’s Gran Torino</strong> - <i>Terry</i> <i>K.</i> <i>Park</i>, Wellesley College (MA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1135222&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Giving Voice to Hmong American Women: Aural Media as Home in the Diaspora</strong> - <i>Lori</i> <i>Lopez</i>, University of Wisconsin, Madison (WI)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7991226&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Patty</i> <i>Ahn</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul>
 
 <h3>New Homeplaces for Black Popular Culture: Sun Ra, Nicki Minaj, Bombastic Laughter, and Black Twitter</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 8:00 to 9:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Quartz</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Questions of authenticity and cultural appropriation have become popular and contentious topics in the academy and in popular media, especially with the rapid growth of new media technologies in the digital age. Debates about the performance of black style, dance, speech, and fashion call into question the value of blackness when produced for commercial consumption. We acknowledge the ways that Americanness is shaped by the constant exclusion of diverse people with the simultaneous consumption of their cultures for popular music, fashion, and humor; while many people do not and cannot feel at home in the U.S. because of racial, gendered, and sexual popular discourses, popular culture provides an avenue for subcultures to reach multiple audiences.  With the advent of digital consumption and global Hip Hop cultures, Black popular culture is used as a vehicle to access American culture and Americanness, regardless of whether black bodies are present. In many ways, Black vernacular forms of music, fashion, and even laughter structure how we create homeplaces digitally—including the ways that we interact with others based on their familiarity with Black popular culture. Therefore, we center Black cultural producers as progenitors and curators of Black cultural homeplaces. By conceptualizing Sun Ra and Nicki Minaj alongside Black vernacular humor sonically and memetic space digitally, this panel investigates the connections between past, present, and future Black popular culture in the United States in hopes of locating homeplaces for non-normative Black cultural forms.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7209547&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Lauren</i> <i>Muller</i>, City College of San Francisco (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1133777&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Home with Hitler?: Nicki Minaj, Butt Bravado, and Blaxploitation’s Legacy</strong> - <i>Aria</i> <i>S.</i> <i>Halliday</i>, Purdue University (IN)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1133778&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Making ‘Black Noise’: Bombastic Rap Personas and Black Vernacular Humor</strong> - <i>Lauren</i> <i>M.</i> <i>Jackson</i>, University of Chicago (IL)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1133779&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Stylin’ on Saturn: Sun Ra, Performance, and Home in the Era of Black Nationalism</strong> - <i>Brian</i> <i>Lefresne</i>, University of Guelph (Canada)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1133780&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>What is this “Black” in Black Twitter?: Race, Difference, and the Production of a Virtual Vernacular</strong> - <i>Brandeise</i> <i>Monk-Payton</i>, Dartmouth College (NH)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7209547&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Lauren</i> <i>Muller</i>, City College of San Francisco (CA)</p></a></li></ul>
 
  <h3>The Seen Unseen: Queer Backdrops, Racial Labor, and Visual Culture</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 10:00 to 11:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 4, Capitol 2</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>If home signals locatedness, it also implies a mise-en-scène.  How are props and backdrops designed to recede and make space for the raced subject?  This panel on visual culture foregrounds the background as that which produces the conditions of self-fashioning and of being seen.  Drawing on Arjun Appadurai’s work in “The Colonial Backdrop,” we explore how what appears ornamental can be structural as well as instrumental.<br />
 <br />
Across the disciplines of History, Literature, Philosophy, and Art, this panel contributes to contemporary debates about queer and racialized subjects as contributors of (often unacknowledged or unattributed) labor, whether physical, or affective labor.  Each of these essays considers the formal qualities, techniques of genre, and historical specificity of a particular medium (painting and animated film, literature, photography, social media) for how it constitutes the centrality of a normative figure by the contrast of a racialized backdrop or landscape.  By attending to a dialectical relationship between backdrop and foreground, the panel locates queer presence where viewers might be encouraged to see absence; it theorizes the way that racialized figures put on display as backdrop make possible the fantasy of an unraced central figure.  It also explores how new media provide opportunities for contesting the meanings of the bodies put on display, challenging the fixity of received cultural codes, and offering the possibility of reinventing new experiences of embodiment.<br />
 <br />
Chi-ming Yang’s essay on Disney’s Bambi foregrounds questions of style and the construction of the painted backgrounds of mid-20th century animation.  The uncredited labor of the scenes links the beloved American cartoon artifact to histories of Asian immigration and racialization as well as Eastern artistic traditions, even as the lushness of the pastiche offers possibilities and articulations of queer desire.  Visualizations of subject formation are further explored by Jerry Miller’s reflections on the imagined spaces within moral philosophy, namely the use of hypothetical examples of African American fictional characters—such as Huckleberry Finn’s Jim—that make legible and universal a white, readerly subject prepped to engage in ethical deliberation.  If the exemplary hypothetical competes with the primacy of the central figure, it also seemingly enables that figure’s centrality.  Tamara Walker’s essay examines this through the artistic representation of Black subjects in a longer history of visual culture across the Americas.  She places recent fashion magazine photography in a tradition of servant and slave portraiture of colonial Latin America.  Even as Black bodies signify the wealth of an elite family their presence also exceeds their function in the scene.  The connections between a history of beauty and a history of media are differently explored by Joon Oluchi Lee’s concluding meditation on idealized gender and digital culture in the case of Tumblr image feeds.  He addresses the virtual reality of utopic spaces of bodily self-fashioning in the blogosphere, where the feed becomes a psychological backdrop.  Rather than dismiss social media for its superficiality, he theorizes an “embrace of fakeness” that can lead to an alternate sense of the body.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151868&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Erica</i> <i>Cho</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134573&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Bambi as Queer/Chinese Dreamscape</strong> - <i>Chi-ming</i> <i>Yang</i>, University of Pennsylvania (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134574&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Race, Distance, and Moral Deliberation</strong> - <i>Jerry</i> <i>Miller</i>, Haverford College in Pennsylvania (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134575&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Black Servants, Whites’ Backdrops: Race, Beauty, and the Visual Vernacular of Luxury in the Andes</strong> - <i>Tamara</i> <i>Walker</i>, University of Pennsylvania (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134576&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>The Sweetness of Fake Meat</strong> - <i>Joon</i> <i>Oluchi</i> <i>Lee</i>, Rhode Island School of Design (RI)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151871&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Meg</i> <i>Wesling</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul>
<h3>Sound Studies Caucus: Race, Sound, and the Politics of Keywords Projects</h3><ul id="event_list" data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Event&selected_box_id=217584&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external"><p style="white-space:normal;"><strong>In Event: <i>Sound Studies Caucus: Race, Sound and the Politics of Keywords Projects</i></strong></p><div id="box_result_217584"></div></a></li></ul><strong>Sat, November 19, 10:00 to 11:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 4, Capitol 5</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>*Sound Studies Caucus Panel*<br />
<br />
In recent years the proliferation of Keywords related texts has become a resource and, in many ways, an essential “textbook” for organizing and addressing shifts in “traditional” fields. For the young field of Sound Studies, sound is used as evidence, method, and often a tool for theorization. “Sound” and “listening” are used by each panelist in their own writings to interrogate racialized notions of power and privilege. Within ASA, in particular, the Sound Studies caucus is committed to investigating issues, of race, gender, sexualities, desire, and/or citizenship through sound texts or approaches. We highlight this distinction given that recent Keywords publications dedicated to the study of sound have not. <br />
<br />
This panel invites a dialogue regarding 1) the institutional weight of Keywords texts to the development and professionalization of Sound Studies; 2) the marginalization and/or neglect of specific keywords central to the intellectual priorities of American Studies; and 3) renewed efforts to move away from words that describe sound to those that are structured by sound. Ultimately, this dialogue is about scholarly place-making tactics of “home” for larger discussions about power and privilege. <br />
<br />
Taking cues from work by Kandice Chuh, Lisa Duggan, and Bruce Burgett and Glenn Hendler, Gustavus Standler looks at the relationship between the keywords heuristic, field building, professionalization, and the consignment of certain subjects to the category of “identity” and “home.” Julie Beth Napolin focuses on the dominant strand of ethnomusicology and musicology in such keywords projects and their perplexing strain with the history of philosophy.  Several entries within sound related keywords projects began with a strongly Anglo-American intellectual genealogy, and then, as a second gesture, drew from fieldwork to test or demonstrate that genealogy. If Sound Studies were about analyzing audible forms of power, it would be important to critique these methods or at least depart from them.  	<br />
<br />
Jennifer Stoever draws attention to how whiteness constitutes itself through sonic markers and sounded exclusions. Whiteness represents itself as “invisible”—or in this case, inaudible (at least to white people). This inaudibility stems from the belief that white representations stand in for “people” in general, rather than “white people” in particular. While never seeming to speak its own name, white sonic identity imagines itself against circumscribed representations of how people of color sound.  <br />
<br />
D. Inés Casillas builds from Stoever’s ideas of whiteness serving as an auditory construction to focus on critical listening practices. For instance, volume levels, language differences, song choice, are all modes of sounding deviant, non-white or perhaps unassimilated.  A discussion about the institutional weight of these texts coupled their exclusion of authors of color and keywords relevant to studies of power and privilege, remind us of the significance of caucuses and the challenges ahead in carving a “home” for such scholars.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7155271&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Dolores Ines</i> <i>Casillas</i>, University of California, Santa Barbara (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7155275&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Jennifer</i> <i>Stoever</i>, State University of New York, Binghamton (NY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7155278&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Gustavus</i> <i>Stadler</i>, Haverford College in Pennsylvania (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7155280&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Julie</i> <i>Beth</i> <i>Napolin</i>, New School University (NY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7155271&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Dolores Ines</i> <i>Casillas</i>, University of California, Santa Barbara (CA)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Digital Humanities Caucus: Digital Shorts: Centering Digital Humanities Projects in American Studies</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 10:00 to 11:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>The Digital Humanities Caucus proposes a reconceived roundtable session of five-minute “lightning talks” calling on conference attendees to present their newest digital projects, updates on digital works in progress, or related digital work including pedagogical projects. This proposal follows highly successful similar sessions at the Annual Meetings in Baltimore, San Juan, Washington, DC, Los Angeles, and Toronto, and takes its format from the “dork shorts” given at THATCamps (a series of “un-conferences” begun at the Center for History and New Media, George Mason University and now held around the world). This innovative format creates an open space for all to contribute and fosters collaborations.<br />
 <br />
We will circulate a call for participants (via Twitter, H-AmStdy, the ASA website, and various email lists) in the month before the conference, organize the presentations into a logical progression, prepare a handout with the list of projects and presenter information to share with attendees, and allow for additional presentations from the floor. In recent years, presentations by some twenty participants have prompted conversations extending well beyond the formal session. Presenters range from senior faculty to new graduate students covering a range of topics and projects including digital archiving, data mapping, pedagogy, online publication, public history, digital social justice, and digital humanities tools. We expect the session will continue to grow in 2016.<br />
 <br />
The conveners of the session will again work hard to ensure that the presenters are representative both of the ASA’s membership and of the breadth of digital projects currently in progress. We will make a point to solicit projects that address the conference theme of home/not home. The conference theme suggests a focus on digital mapping and other digital projects engaging themes and places connected to home and its absence through migration, settler colonialism, homelessness, and indigenous presences in the Americas. We also plan to invite projects that interrogate the relationship between digital humanities and American studies, asking what happens when we center digital humanities work in American studies, and when we center the concerns of American studies scholars in the digital humanities field. <br />
<br />
Session conveners will also be in charge of moderating the session, enforcing a five minute maximum for all presentations, reserving time for discussion of issues the presentations raise, and facilitating that discussion at the end of the session. We will claim a hashtag to encourage online discussions during and after the panel session and conference.<br />
 <br />
This session's lightning talk format incorporates elements central to digital humanities practice, from a Web 2.0 “wisdom of the crowd” sensibility, to the quickly changing nature of digital projects which don’t lend themselves to the ASA’s longer time-line for paper proposals. This model for scholarly communication offers the field of American studies new opportunities for forging from-the-bottom-up ways of making knowledge.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152780&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Hilarie</i> <i>Ashton</i>, City University of New York, Graduate Center (NY)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152725&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Carly</i> <i>Kocurek</i>, Illinois Institute of Technology (IL)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152678&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Amanda</i> <i>Phillips</i>, University of California, Davis (CA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152780&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Hilarie</i> <i>Ashton</i>, City University of New York, Graduate Center (NY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7423648&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Jessica</i> <i>Marie</i> <i>Johnson</i>, Johns Hopkins University (MD)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7611792&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Miriam</i> <i>Posner</i>, University of California, Los Angeles (CA)</p></li></ul>

<h3>Home is a Place Where We Have Never Been: Queer, Feminist, and Decolonial Speculative Imaginaries</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 12:00 to 1:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Centennial F</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Feminist science fiction writer Ursula K. Le Guin wrote in her 1974 anarchist utopia The Dispossessed that "you can go home again, so long as you understand that home is a place where you have never been." Taking inspiration from the spiral torsion Le Guin gives to ideas of homecoming, in which new worlds rebuild lost and perhaps never-existing homelands, this session considers the dense textures of the familiar and the estranging woven by science-fictional speculations. Through the figuration of the-home-that-has-never-been, this session engages with the ways that speculative fictions by and for feminists, queers, and people of color have tried to rewrite empire and to make a home within devastated futures, apocalyptic landscapes, and inhospitable utopias. The spiral curve of the incipient future animates in new ways the conceptual force of old futures and alternate histories whose visions queer linearity and wormhole past and future. The worldmaking power of old and new futures, however, sits in uncanny contiguity with contemporary biocapitalism, which harvests surplus vitalities from the disasters of the Anthropocene. This session brings queer, feminist, and decolonial logics to bear on the rapacious world(un)making moves of the present. <br />
<br />
This panel is a dialogue among four scholars currently completing books on the cultural politics of speculative fiction, all of whom understand the-home-that-has-never-been as a figure animating critical struggles over queer, feminist, and decolonial futures. In The Child to Come: Life after the Human Catastrophe, Rebekah Sheldon focuses on the child in discourses of emergent life and systemic catastrophe, arguing that the child is queerly in excess of the human future it is meant to protect. In Migrant Futures: Decolonizing Speculation in Financial Times, Aimee Bahng examines narratives of futurity across a range of platforms, asserting that, since a history of racial capitalism subtends visions of the future, to imagine otherwise demands an excavation of this history. Picking up on Bahng’s connecting of archives and futures, in Speculative Archives: Science Fiction’s Alternate Histories of Race, Sex, the Future, and the World, Shelley Streeby calls attention to speculative fiction as a transnational genre that leaps from form to form, traversing space in ways that both implicate it in neoliberal and imperial world-building projects and imagine otherwise the spaces that divide and connect us. Finally, Alexis Lothian’s Old Futures: The Queer Cultural Politics of Speculative Fiction delves into the archive of futures that have been imagined and that have failed to come to pass, identifying a queer tradition of critical speculation in the twentieth century that continues to make itself felt in the twenty-first. <br />
<br />
Each of the panelists will open with a 10-minute statement of how her project engages the figure of the home-that-has-never-been in relation to struggles over queer, feminist, and decolonial futures. Following that, in a five-minute response each panelist will connect her own take on this genre, this figure and these struggles to one of the core ideas of the other panelists’ projects. We will conclude by opening up the discussion to the speculations of the audience.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127890&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Shelley</i> <i>Streeby</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127737&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Aimee</i> <i>Bahng</i>, Dartmouth College (NH)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7125447&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Alexis</i> <i>Lothian</i>, University of Maryland, College Park (MD)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127891&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Rebekah</i> <i>Sheldon</i>, Indiana University-Bloomington (IN)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127890&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Shelley</i> <i>Streeby</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Technologies of Race: Racial Projections, Racial Play</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 2:00 to 3:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Granite A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Constructed session</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7722330&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Steve</i> <i>Marston</i>, Franklin & Marshall College (PA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132468&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Racialized Play, Caught in Real Time</strong> - <i>Peter</i> <i>Fine</i>, University of Wyoming (WY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1135720&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>The Ghost Dance and Realism's Techno-Spiritual Frontier</strong> - <i>Lindsay</i> <i>V.</i> <i>Reckson</i>, Haverford College in Pennsylvania (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132181&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Racial Uplift, Eugenics, and the Disarticulation of Home during the Interwar Years</strong> - <i>Shantella</i> <i>Yolanda</i> <i>Sherman</i>, Independent Scholar</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1131928&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Racial Projections on the Silent Screen: James Weldon Johnson and the Race Comedy</strong> - <i>Yair</i> <i>Solan</i>, City University of New York, Graduate Center (NY)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Producing Public History: Reflections on a Multi-Platform Project on the Mass Incarceration of American Indians</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 2:00 to 3:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>In this panel each of the three presenters will provide a critical reflection on their collaborative multi-platform public history project entitled Patterns of Removal: American Indians in Minnesota from Colonialism to Mass Incarceration. The project was created in the Fall of 2015, as part of the Humanities Action Lab (HAL) international initiative on mass incarceration, States of Incarceration. In Patterns of Removal, the panelists argue that education, war, policy, diplomacy, urbanization, and incarceration are threads in the process of removal woven throughout the fabric of American society. The project locates mass incarceration as the latest in a long line of Federal policies that contribute to the forced movement of American Indians in the United States and the erosion of tribal sovereignty. The collaborative project aimed to prioritise American Indians from Minnesota as the desired audience: the project’s description was published in The Circle - a local American Indian newspaper; the Esri Story Map, and the video created for the collaboration are soon to be available online. Moreover, a handmade (maga)zine, which functions as a coloring book and has space to record one’s own history of displacement, will be distributed to Minnesota tribes, pending a printing grant. The overall HAL project will premier in New York in April 2016, therefore panelists will also be able reflect on the national launch of their collaboration and their individual contributions.  <br />
<br />
The panel begins with a brief description of the collaborative project, a showing of the video, and a distribution of the zine and crayons for the audience to enhance audience participation. The audience are encouraged to color in, write in, and keep the zine. In the first presentation, Jenna L. Rempfert reflect on the theoretical, methodological, and experimental challenges in using GIS mapping and geospatial analysis, and points to the user-oriented experience that this digital humanities projects seeks to create. In the second presentation, Elena D. Hristova reflects on the limits of the digital, taking into account institutional opportunity structures that may limit the access of non-academic publics to digital public history projects. Her presentation further interrogates the limits and possibilities for public pedagogy through the counterculture genre of the zine. In the third presentation, Alisha Volante returns to the possibilities of the digital to discuss the video element of the project and its ability to reach non-academic and especially American Indian audiences through mobile technology. The panel’s overall focus on self-reflexivity in digital public history points towards critical public pedagogy practices and aims to interrogate the role of the public historian.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7210512&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Jacki</i> <i>Thompson</i> <i>Rand</i>, University of Iowa (IA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134361&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Reflections on a Dynamic Spatial Visualization of Mass Incarceration</strong> - <i>Jenna</i> <i>L.</i> <i>Rempfert</i>, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (MN)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134362&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>The Non-Digital of a Digital Public History Project: Reflections on a Zine</strong> - <i>Elena</i> <i>D.</i> <i>Hristova</i>, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (MN)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1134363&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Reaching Subaltern Audiences: Reflections on Visual Media in Public History</strong> - <i>Alisha</i> <i>Volante</i>, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (MN)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151403&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Catherine</i> <i>R.</i> <i>Squires</i>, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (MN)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Making to Learn: Maker Culture in the Humanities</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 2:00 to 3:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall E</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Talk Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>What happens to the geeky, ready-to-be-monetized-by-Forbes practice of maker culture when academics get their hands on it?  Jentery Sayers encourages us to approach “Make -- the Brand” critically, taking into account “Make: Not the Brand,” like the DIY cultures that arose around the punk movement and underground variants of hip hop and electronic music.  In this panel, we explore what we have learned through the making of things that may or may not have ever existed in the past,  setting students loose on making videos about objects in an indigenous archive, bouncing radio signals off the ionosphere, and twerking.  Our presentations will demonstrate that  working from making and doing can teach both the maker and people who learn a little further from this unstable homebase much, whether the subject is African cultural transmission to the Americas, the practice of sovereignty in Hawaiʿi, African American cultural practices, or moving one’s body, watching movers, and watching the watchers.  <br />
<br />
This approach begins from the emic, looking out from the inside, while keeping in mind the ultimate inaccessibility of that inside or home space for anything other than one’s own home (and perhaps even then).  Thus approaching something that is “not home” from the inside, we must grapple with the etic, the outside looking in, but from a different perspective than if we just stayed outside and treated the subject as “other.”  By putting the poles of this binary formulation of home/not home in conversation and demonstrating how they are integral to one another, the reductive dualism of the binary turns into something much more recursive and elusive, a sort of calculus where we are approaching yet never reaching our object of study, with the shadow of uncertainty ever playing a productive and generative part.  While in much academic work, certainty is prized, here doubt and uncertainty is what makes the enterprise possible.   WIth the indigenous Hawaiian archives at Kamehameha Schools, the problem is similar, but perhaps inverted in some ways.  There young people are seeking to learn about their own cultures through making videos about archival materials that often come from the American colonizers as much as from Hawaiians themselves.  Students struggle with discovering that the objects with which they are trying to understand home come from the etic, from the “not-home,” of those who initially created  and populated the archives in an effort to un-create the home culture and history as an assimilationist project..  <br />
<br />
Maker learning is more open-ended than many other ways of learning.  There is a sense of play and possibility in making something that may or may not have existed, or attending to others who are doing so,  inquiry guided by doing rather than hypothesis testing.  This practice has a long history in crafts training and apprenticeship that we seek to bring to the practices of history, art, library sciences, and American Studies respectively.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127706&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Amie</i> <i>Elizabeth</i> <i>Parry</i>, National Central University (Taiwan)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136048&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Ethnodigital Sonics and Maker Culture in Understanding African Music in Seventeenth-Century Jamaica</strong> - <i>Richard</i> <i>Rath</i>, University of Hawaii, Manoa (HI)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136049&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Beyond History Day: An Object-Based Digital History Project in a K-12 Archive</strong> - <i>Stacy</i> <i>Kaleolani</i> <i>Naipo</i>, Kamehameha Schools (HI)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136050&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Ionospheric Congregations: Afrofuturism, Black CB’s Super Bowl, and Broadcasting Hidden Transcripts</strong> - <i>David</i> <i>A. M.</i> <i>Goldberg</i>, University of Hawaii, Manoa (HI)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Digital Humanities Caucus: Homing/Redefining Digital Humanities in the Academy from an American Studies Perspective</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 12:00 to 1:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>Digital humanities are here to stay, although the academy has been slow to react to the rise of digital modes of research and publishing. As humanists have creatively renovated their homes in the humanities as universities turn toward technology and data-driven results, many postings in the recent rounds of the academic job market in the humanities have had digital components. While the methods in the humanities are shifting, many standards for evaluation, tenure, promotion, and degree conferral have not. The MLA, AHA, and other scholarly organizations have specifically approved guidelines for the review of DH work for tenure and promotion, yet the ASA has not. How does the ASA's interdisciplinarity, focus on race and gender in DH, and activist stance as a society suggest ways in which our society might issue a similar such call? With this roundtable, we seek to overtly explore digital humanities’ home in higher education and discuss when and where we do American Studies.<br />
<br />
In previous years, the ASA has been home to discussions about the role of critical race and gender studies in the digital humanities. Home as a constitutive category in the Indigenous world resonates within the work of DH as scholars such as Lisa Nakamura have written about the history of Native women who built integrated circuits on Navajo reservations, yet rarely receive recognition for their contributions to technological development. Other debates around defining digital humanities have been deeply influenced by American Studies frameworks, as raced / gendered / sexualized / disabled bodies in higher education participate in digital humanities work but often do not get credit. In this panel, we will examine and challenge the relationships between the dominant models of DH and their relationship to evaluation and promotion. Topics to be covered include: the exclusion of  work by scholars at universities that lack DH centers; crediting DH work that is not based on big data; offering appropriate graduate education and evaluation of DH projects, and tenure evaluation of digital projects. <br />
<br />
This panel brings together scholars whose work includes theory and practice in American Studies and digital humanities. During the first part of this roundtable panelists will present short position statements, critique, provocations, and conversations. We will open the second half of the roundtable for audience participation and a broader discussion of establishing tenure and evaluation guidelines for digital projects.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127589&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Lauren</i> <i>Tilton</i>, Yale University (CT)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7127589&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Lauren</i> <i>Tilton</i>, Yale University (CT)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151059&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Elizabeth</i> <i>Losh</i>, College of William and Mary (VA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151148&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Angel</i> <i>Nieves</i>, Hamilton College (NY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151166&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Veronica</i> <i>Paredes</i>, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign (IL)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Digital Storytelling for Social Justice: Displacements of Family and Home</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Performative Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>In this performative session we present a selection of first-person-created digital stories about displacements of family and home, as vehicles through which to explore how the creation and sharing of digital stories can foster social justice. Social understandings of home cannot be fully understood without attention to the complexities of family, power, and nation. Each of the stories we screen articulates a narrative in which the State regulates where and how different lives are allowed to claim and create home. We explore issues of Native American displacement of land and identity, transnational migration, and foster care and adoption as sites of critical negotiation between individuals and families with the State, concerning where adoptees may feel at-home. <br />
<br />
We present a collection of nine 1-5 minute video stories created by activists, community members, and students. They include "This is Home," Bill Tallbull’s story about his Cheyenne family’s relationship to Sand Creek, and how Denver was once Cheyenne land. “El colibrí/The Hummingbird” is an immigrant’s story about the gendered violence of the 1980s Civil War, prompting the migration en masse of Salvadorans to the United States. "Baggage" was created by an African American foster teen that is moved by social services so much that "home" is her suitcase. <br />
<br />
Digital Storytelling methodology intersects with life history, ethnographic, and oral history methods of grounding stories in personal voices that link them to larger social contexts in which all humans make sense of who they are and where they may “belong.” It fulfills the calls of feminist and critical race ethnographers for research that disrupts hegemonic hierarchies of knowledge production. The practice of digital storytelling makes life history research into participatory research, with participants crafting their own stories and making them available online for public viewing. We explore questions of how ethnographers might act as curators for collections of online digital stories made by the people and communities with whom they engage in research. Digital stories provide avenues through which to educate, activate, and motivate people through thoughtful, critically engaged personal narratives that speak to pressing issues of social inequality and oppression. Most people do not read academic research. People watch videos. We are moved by stories. We can hear and see analysis when it comes in the shape of an allegory—a personal stories intimately interwoven with larger social narratives of family and home and nation. <br />
<br />
The discussants include a digital storytelling facilitator and museum educator, a professor of Spanish and Portuguese who facilitates student-created stories about transnational migration from Central America, and a professor of American Studies who uses digital storytelling in the classroom as a tool for critical reflection and community engagement, as well as an articulation of life history research. This performance draws on traditions of critical social interrogation in American Studies, Women’s and Gender Studies, critical race, gender, and sexuality studies, media production, and movements for social justice that utilize life stories to undermine ideology and redefine public knowledge about intersections of family, home, belonging, and power.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150288&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Sandra</i> <i>Patton-Imani</i>, Drake University (IA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comments</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152943&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Ana</i> <i>Patricia</i> <i>Rodriguez</i>, University of Maryland, College Park (MD)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152947&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Mary Ann</i> <i>McNair</i>, StoryCenter, Denver (CO)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150288&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Sandra</i> <i>Patton-Imani</i>, Drake University (IA)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Visual Culture Caucus: Family Photography at Home (Keywords)</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 4, Capitol 2</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Talk Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>In recent years families have radically restructured because of mass migrations, the formation of diverse diasporic communities, and the legal recognition of queer marriage. These developments provoke questions about the function of domestic images as a means of mediating the way that we look at families and understand the concept of home. Despite these shifts and increasing critical interest in domestic images, there has not yet been a full account of family photography’s complexity. One of the most popular photographic genres is also one of the least understood. Visual theorists often assume that such images reinforce domestic ideologies, and tend to focus on images from white communities. Photography theorists have developed useful concepts, most influentially “vernacular” (Batchen) and “postmemory” (Hirsch), to consider family photos as instruments of ideology with a memorializing function, which normalize conventions about race, gender, and sexuality and which regulate borders to symbolically establish civic citizenship and national identity. In contrast, scholars are starting to show that domestic images might be used to contest domestic ideology and state apparatuses (e.g. Campt; Pasternak). Given the ways that families have altered and that photography has changed in the digital age, there is an urgent need for new approaches to domestic images. <br />
<br />
This roundtable expands scholarly frameworks by introducing innovative keywords for exploring family photography as a critical building block for understanding racialized and sexualized constructions of self, community, and nation. Laura Wexler highlights the state as not just a juridical mode of governance but also an apparatus that determines the “emotional conditions of being in everyday life.” Her discussion develops THE STATE as a keyword to understand the affective dimensions of photos of Chinese immigrants in the US and Canada, whose very presence at these sites hinges on state recognition. Elspeth Brown underscores TRANS* as a critical keyword to investigate how the state’s frequent normalization of sexuality might be visually contested. Brown focuses on select archives of trans families in the US and Canada to consider the role of domestic images in shaping masculinities and the affective labor of transition at home. Leigh Raiford likewise attends to the linkage between visual affects, by considering the ways that black family photographs, particularly those contained within Paul Robeson’s personal archives, negotiate diasporic feeling. Accordingly, Raiford develops DIASPORA as a critical keyword for grappling with the relationship that communities traversing the black Atlantic have with their domestic images. In her contribution to this roundtable, Thy Phu reflects on the messiness of family photographs, that is, the ways that they give rise to multiple entanglements, whether categorical (as when images produced by the state end up in personal collections and when digital images are stored alongside material artifacts) or affective (as when treasured images are too painful to look at). Drawing inspiration from Martin Manalansan’s insights on mess as a challenge to epistemological hierarchies, Phu focuses on MESS as a keyword that offers an analytic means to take account of the haphazard quality of these images and the waywardness of the subjects they portray.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7132025&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Shawn</i> <i>Michelle</i> <i>Smith</i>, School of the Art Institute of Chicago (IL)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132242&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>State</strong> - <i>Laura</i> <i>Wexler</i>, Yale University (CT)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132243&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Diaspora</strong> - <i>Leigh</i> <i>Raiford</i>, University of California, Berkeley (CA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132244&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Trans*</strong> - <i>Elspeth</i> <i>Brown</i>, University of Toronto (Canada)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1132245&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Mess</strong> - <i>Thy</i> <i>Phu</i>, Western University (Canada)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7132025&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Shawn</i> <i>Michelle</i> <i>Smith</i>, School of the Art Institute of Chicago (IL)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Transatlantic BlackLivesWorlds: Teaching Human Rights as Global Collaboration</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 4, Capitol 4</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>This roundtable will serve as an invitation to all activists, educators, and researchers who would like to be part of a very recent Human Rights initiative founded and directed by David Palumbo-Liu. Housed at Stanford University, the www.TeachingHumanRights.org website has begun to serve as a platform that is devoted to sharing and learning about ideas about human rights from multiple perspectives. <br />
In our roundtable, we will report on one of the collaborations that came about because of this website. Students from Stanford University, the University of California at Merced, University of Würzburg (Germany), and the Prison University Project at San Quentin State Prison in California straddled class, geography, and race to find new ways to interrogate the most pressing concerns of our time, seeing that 21st-century race relations, immigration debates, right-wing movements, and Global North/South conflicts seem to be unparalleled so far. <br />
The 2016 ASA conference asks to locate any discourse that helps clarify the theme Home/Not Home: Centering American Studies Where We Are. With the initiative we will introduce, we privilege American Studies as having offered continuously a highly critical discourse on historical and ongoing violations of human rights, especially in regard to race relations. Only because of this ongoing commitment has American Studies been able to serve as an intellectual and academically vigorous “home” that has enabled its “children” leave “the academically nurturing home” of American Studies in order to challenge global concerns. We would like to let one of our participating students serve as an example here for our claim. The student brought Denise Ferreira Da Silva’s work in Toward a Global Idea of Race into the larger, global discussion: Da Silva begins her book with the question why it is possible that in the 21st century, despite the fact that racism has been consistently deemed as immoral and unjust, the racial continue still dictates the contemporary global configuration. Silva argues that racial thinking is constitutive of the discourse of modern thought, and modernity and modern intellectuals needed the racial in order to construct a universal Subject; according to Silva, the ongoing production of the racial institutes the global as an onto‐ epistemological context, yet also needs the global to sustain the post‐Enlightenment version of the Subject. A discussion of Da Silva’s arguments caused a substantial further discourse among the international student body. The example here will hopefully show what we plan with the suggested roundtable and its invitation to become part of this Human Rights platform.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152246&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>David</i> <i>Palumbo-Liu</i>, Stanford University (CA)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152250&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Nigel</i> <i>Hatton</i>, University of California, Merced (CA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149857&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Heike</i> <i>Raphael-Hernandez</i>, University of Maryland, University College (MD)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7152254&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Catrin</i> <i>Gersdorf</i>, University of Wuerzburg (Germany)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Mapping the Intersections of Indigenous and Settler Colonial Studies: Lessons From Hawaiʻi</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 4, Capitol 6</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Paper Session: Traditional Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>This panel examines the tensions and radical possibilities embedded in the intersections of Indigenous and settler colonial studies from the geopolitical context of Hawai‘i. In his review of Glen Sean Coulthard’s Red Skin, White Masks: Rejecting the Colonial Politics of Recognition, Lorenzo Veracini exposes some of the tensions that we seek to explore here. In his review published in NAIS, he says, “Under settler colonialism it is the settler that is affected by profound psychopathologies. This later notion is not aimed at displacing Coulthard’s focus on indigenous self-affirmation, but should parallel it.” Veracini defensively suggests resolving the settler’s guilt of perpetuating the dispossession, elimination, and replacement of the Native is as necessary for a decolonized future as Indigenous self-affirmation. Furthermore, he argues that settlers and Indigenous peoples work along “parallel tracks” to dismantle settler colonial power and thereby actualize decolonization. Veracini, thus, asserts that “we need settler colonial studies as much as we need critical indigenous studies.” But if we need settler colonial studies, it is certainly not for its ability to recenter settler subjectivities and “psychopathologies,” nor for its ability to offer theories on the role of settlers in decolonization that neglect the generous and lengthy discussions on this topic from Indigenous studies. For this panel, we are not only concerned by prescription of liberal therapy as a curative to settler culpability, but also by the impulse to suggest settlers continue their “work” through a parallel rather than integrative path of accountability. In order to map the intersections of Indigenous and settler colonial studies, Indigenous self-affirmation, resurgence, and decolonization must not be collapsed into the white heteropatriarchal supremacy of settler colonialism. This panel considers what, exactly, settler colonial studies has to offer Indigenous studies, whether settler colonial studies can decenter settler subjectivities, and what settler colonial studies must learn from Indigenous studies and settlers of color scholarship. Therefore, we pose and address the following questions: how might the role of the settler be made more genuinely accountable in projects to decolonize settler colonialisms?; how can Indigenous methodologies work to dismantle settler colonialisms and actualize decolonial futures for Native peoples and nations?; how can Indigenous and settler colonial studies intersect without re-centering the settler as the subject of knowledge production in the former nor the Native as simply the object of analysis for the latter?</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151265&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>J. Kehaulani</i> <i>Kauanui</i>, Wesleyan University (CT)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Individual Submissions</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136539&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Decentering the Settler in Settler Colonial Studies</strong> - <i>Amy</i> <i>L.</i> <i>Brandzel</i>, University of New Mexico (NM)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136540&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Cartography and Mo‘o‘āina as Method at the Intersection of Indigenous and Settler Colonial Studies</strong> - <i>Candace</i> <i>Fujikane</i>, University of Hawaii, Manoa (HI)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136541&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Notices of Settlement: U.S. Federal Recognition and Kanaka Maoli Politics of ‘A‘ole</strong> - <i>David</i> <i>Uahikeaikaleiʻohu</i> <i>Maile</i>, University of New Mexico (NM)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Paper&selected_paper_id=1136542&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>“Fuck Ben”: Haunani-Kay Trask and Alternative Genealogies of Settler Colonial Studies</strong> - <i>Dean</i> <i>Itsuji</i> <i>Saranillio</i>, New York University (NY)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Decolonial Feminism: Theory and Praxis II</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Centennial C</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>This roundtable discussion builds creatively on the work of Maria Lugones and Sylvia Wynter, for whom two key concerns form part of this particular trajectory of decolonial feminism.   First, there is an effort to address a concern that emerges from Women of color feminists’ intersectional critique, namely the tendency in much feminist theory to treat race, class, gender, and sexuality as separate and separable entities. Second, there is an effort to rethink these categories in relation to the colonial epistemes, institutions, and practices that worked to produce distinctions between those that would be recognized as human and those that would be relegated to the realm of the non-human. As Wynter argues disrupting these categories in some sense requires our redefining the human, not to gain entry into the brotherhood of Man, but to rethink the very terms in which we understand the human/non-human divide and all its concomitant interrelationships.<br />
<br />
This roundtable discussion expands on last year’s by emphasizing the praxical relevance of this theorizing and engaging contemporary examples of decolonial feminism at work.  The first panelist will illustrate how the sistema de castas complicates how we understand and approach race, coloniality, the legacy of the casta system, and political organizing. In particular, the sistema de castas produced a particular way of thinking about the other where visuality undermined kinship ties, negated recognition across the color line, ossified embodiment, and applied novel values to morphology, introducing a new logic to human relations. This panelist will discuss the particular existential challenges for women of color feminist politics that the legacy of the sistema de castas and “being mixed” presents, and its possibilities for political activism in a contemporary context.  Beginning from the existential challenges for women of color and a decolonial feminist politics, the second presenter examines the relational dynamics that produce what she refers to as the “wages of gender,” the economic, social, political and psychological “privileges”/“benefits” one gets from identifying with, aspiring to, and manifesting dominant racialized and heteronormative conceptions of sex/gender.  This decolonial feminist concept not only problematizes how we talk about “privilege” within various feminisms but it also helps illuminate the colonial trappings of gender that work to undermine broad-based coalitional efforts.  <br />
<br />
The third panelist will engage contemporary sociopolitical activism around movements such as #idlenomore and #blacklivesmatter. She will discuss how contemporary writings that have emerged in public spaces surrounding these movements are forms of decolonial feminist practices that challenge racializing hierarchies while refusing to collapse racial/historical/national difference. These decolonial feminist movidas, i.e. relating across differences and even distinct interests/needs, can be seen as a series of contentious but productive practices through which new modes of understanding colonial and racial differences can be articulated.  The last panelist will address the diverse forms through which decolonial feminist praxis is emerging in contemporary art, using her curatorial project "losarchivosdelcuerpo" as a framework. She will introduce the digital cinemas of two contemporary artists each of whom engage decolonial feminisms and semiotics in diverse and generative ways.</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7151134&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Tacuma</i> <i>Peters</i>, Michigan State University (MI)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150958&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Xhercis</i> <i>Mendéz</i>, California State University, Fullerton (CA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150967&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Yomaira</i> <i>Figueroa</i>, Michigan State University (MI)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150969&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Dalida Maria</i> <i>Benfield</i>, Vermont College of Fine Art (VT)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7150888&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Daphne</i> <i>Taylor-Garcia</i>, University of California, San Diego (CA)</p></a></li></ul>

<h3>Is There a Place for the Commons?</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 4:00 to 5:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Centennial F</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><blockquote><p>The commons has been understood as a pre-capitalist social relationship and property form; an emergent mode of economic production; and an anti-capitalist politics. This roundtable brings together a group of scholars to discuss whether or not the commons finds a viable home in contemporary social formations. More specifically, since matters of home are political matters – struggles over rights and capacities in regards to space, resources, and autonomy – the concept of the commons necessarily implies political struggle: disputes and antagonisms in regards to property rights, access to resources, and forms of life. One of the difficulties much thinking of the commons encounters is the requirement of translating between the economic and the political. Is a politics of the commons no more than a politicization of an already given economic form? Does a politics of the commons intervene into the economic, reconstellating the relations that make up society? Can the commons have a politics, or can it only serve as the condition for a politics?<br />
<br />
Each of the speakers on this panel introduces a specific historical, social, and political context into discussions of the commons. In doing so, they trouble the association of the commons with the immaterial, specifically with the digital commons. It is not that we disregard this important theorization of a digital sharing economy – such theories at the very least anticipate new economic relationships – but rather that we also want to consider the discrepant histories of struggle involved in proposing new kinds of cooperation. For instance, how do contemporary proposals of the commons as a social and economic alternative repeat with a difference the history of working class labor movements? How do they draw on indigenous cultures, including the cooperative relations of American Indian and First Nations peoples, and how might American Indian and First Nations activism, such as Idle No More, reclaim resources for a commons? How do proposals for the commons articulate themselves along the lines of gender, sexuality, and race? How, for instance, might the HIV/AIDS activist group ACT UP generate a biopolitical commons based on vulnerability and anger? How do revolutionary forms of participatory democracy prefigure a cooperative economic relationships, and how might the tumult of urban riots signal the coming into being of a new society? How do traditions of communalism in Latin America contest neoliberal policy in the western hemisphere?<br />
<br />
Taken together, these contributions lead one to the following question: can the commons, as a concept and a set of practices, make a home for a twenty-first century anti-capitalist politics? Capitalism annihilates home, not merely by producing homeless surplus populations (disposable lives) but also by entangling home with alienation. Can a politics of the commons support another way of conceptualizing and constituting home? Home not as possession but as a sharing of space, a non-exclusive relationality free from inegalitarian formations such as the nation-state and class?</p></blockquote><h4>Sub Unit</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+Load+Selected+Focus&selected_sub_unit_id=54110&program_focus=browse_by_sub_unit_submissions&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>American Studies Association Annual Meeting</strong></p></a></li></ul><h4>Chair</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149817&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Peter</i> <i>Hitchcock</i>, City University of New York, Graduate Center (NY)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Panelists</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149818&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Dana</i> <i>Nelson</i>, Vanderbilt University (TN)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149819&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Sean</i> <i>Grattan</i>, University of Kent (United Kingdom)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149816&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Susan</i> <i>Hegeman</i>, University of Florida (FL)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149822&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Joseph</i> <i>Slaughter</i>, Columbia University (NY)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149827&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Joshua</i> <i>Clover</i>, University of California, Davis (CA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149829&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Sophia</i> <i>McClennen</i>, Pennsylvania State University, University Park Main Campus (PA)</p></a></li><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149817&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Peter</i> <i>Hitchcock</i>, City University of New York, Graduate Center (NY)</p></a></li></ul><h4>Comment</h4><ul data-role="listview" data-inset="true" data=mini="true"><li><a href="https://convention2.allacademic.com//one/theasa/theasa16/index.php?cmd=Online+Program+View+Person&selected_people_id=7149748&PHPSESSID=ncsfa1rq2kvunbs8ra9ocqe8e5"  rel="external" style="white-space: normal;"><p style="white-space: normal;"><i>Christian</i> <i>Haines</i>, Dartmouth College (NH)</p></a></li></ul>

